
Abstract:Door sensor for automatic lighting control is widely being developed for energy saving and security purposes. An infrared door sensor based on electrical and electronics combinational circuit technology is used to develop the automatic light switching system. The automatic light switching system will lead to energy saving and efficient energy usage which could benefit every single individual. Furthermore, the system is developed with safety environment when switching `ON' or `OFF' the light during the room occupancy or unoccupancy. Apart from safety environment, it also comprises manual switching in case user needs to have light during the day. Basically, this system is designed to be installed in the restroom.View less






The system which  is the  design and construction of an automatic  sliding  door  using  infrared  sensor  was designed considering some factors such as  economy, availability of  components and research materials, efficiency, compatibility, portability and also durability.  The  performance  of  the  system  after  test  met  design  specifications.  The  general  operation  of  this  system  and performance is dependent on the presence of the person entering through the door and how closer he/she is to the door. The door is  meant  to open  automatically  but in  a  case  where  there is  no  power supply  trying  to  force the  door  open  will  damage  the mechanical control system of the unit. Also the operation is dependent on how well the soldering  is done, and the positioning of the components on  the Vero-board. The  IC’s were  soldered  away from the  power supply stage  to prevent heat  radiation which, might occur and affect the performance of the entire system. The construction was done in such a way that it makes maintenance and repairs an easy task and affordable for the user should there be any system breakdown
